The Maleficent actress spoke movingly about the surgery in a rare joint interview with her husband Brad Pitt

Angelina Jolie has revealed it was one of her mother's dying wishes she had her ovaries removed , insisting the same surgeon carried out the procedure.

In a rare joint interview with her husband Brad Pitt , the actress spoke movingly about the surgery she has had to endure over the last two years.

In 2013 she underwent a double mastectomy after doctors found she carried a gene with almost a 90% risk of her developing breast cancer.

Earlier this year tests showed the Maleficent star could have signs of early stage ovarian cancer, which her mother Marcheline Bertrand died from in 2007.

She then underwent surgery to have her ovaries removed.

Speaking on NBC's Today show the actress revealed her surgeon had told her: "I promised your mother, and I gotta do this."

"We had some of the same nurses, some of the same doctors," said Angelina.

"So, the doctor that did my ovary surgery was my mother's doctor. And apparently my mother had said to her, 'Promise me you will take Angie's ovaries out.'

"So when we kind of got together, we both had a big cry, and she said, 'I promised your mother, and I gotta do this'."

The actress, 40, who is now going through menopause because of the ovary removal said her husband's support helped her accept the physical changes that would come with both operations .

"I think for as much as it speaks about my strength, he made it very, very clear to me that what he loved, and what was a woman to him, was someone who was smart, and capable and loved her family," she said.

Discussing his wife's bravery the actor, 51, said: "There was no vanity to my wife's approach. It was mature. 'This is our life and we're going to make the best of it'.

"There was a strength in that.

"It was just another one of those things in life that makes you tighter, and she was doing it for the kids, and she was doing it for her family so we could be together."