Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's rare sit-down was described in one word by NBC's Tom Brokaw: honest.

"There was no vanity to my wife's approach," Pitt bluntly said on Jolie's choice to remove her breasts in a double mastectomy, her ovaries and fallopian tubes when she found out she carried BRCA1 cancer gene.

"It was mature.'This is our life and we're going to make the best of it.' There was a strength in that. It was just another one of those things in life that makes you tighter, and she was doing it for the kids, and she was doing it for her family so we could be together," he said to Brokaw in their interview, which aired Monday on "Today."

Jolie equally praised her other half and how he handled her surgeries.

"I knew he made it very clear and what he loved and what was a woman to him was someone who was smart. I knew he was on my side I wasn't going to feel like less of a woman because my husband wasn't going to let that happen," she told Brokaw.

Jolie touched on the fact that her ovarian surgery, which was done by the same doctor who treated her late mother, has brought on early onset menopause.

"So, the doctor that did my ovary surgery was my mother's doctor. And apparently my mother had said to her, 'Promise me you will take Angie's ovaries out.' So when we kind of got together, we both had a big cry, and she said, 'I promised your mother, and I gotta do this," Jolie recalled, adding her hormones are now changing and "it's different you feel different."

Jolie's mom Marcheline Bertrand passed away in 2007 after an eight-year battle with ovarian cancer.

Jolie and Pitt, who wed after nearly 10 years together last summer have made the choice to go in front of the cameras again in "By the Sea" for this first time since meeting on the set of "Mr. & Mrs. Smith."

The two made it clear to viewers that the film is not a case of art imitating life.

"We were joking at one point this is the beginning this is 10 years this is what 10 years of marriage will do to you," Jolie quipped, adding that the marriage trouble their characters are going through on screen is not their reality.

"By the Sea" hits theaters Nov. 13.