Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie rarely give interviews together, but they have done just that to promote the upcoming movie they are co-starring in.

The happy couple's sit-down chat will air on the Today Show on November 2, and sees them discussing their 'very, very stable' marriage.

Angelina praises Brad for his support during her preventative double mastectomy in 2013, and the surgery to remove her ovaries earlier this year.

'I knew through the surgeries that he was on my side and that this wasn't something where I was going to feel less of a woman, because my husband wasn't going to let that happen,' she shared.

Angelina had the double mastectomy at the age of 37, after learning that she had an 87% risk of developing breast cancer due to a defective BRCA1 gene.

Due to the same anomaly, she had a 50% risk of developing ovarian cancer and decided to get the oophorectomy two years later, which brought upon early menopause.

Brad told Today's Tom Brokaw that his role was to 'support' Angelina as much as possible during that time.

He said he would do 'whatever's got to be done to keep the family together, and keep the family together as long as possible is going to be done.'

Brad added: 'This was her charge, no question. It's a scary decision. There's many things that can go wrong and go many different directions.'

The couple, who have six children, married in August 2014 after nine years together, and spent their honeymoon filming new drama By The Sea on the Maltese island of Gozo.

It's their first movie together since 2005's Mr. & Mrs. Smith, which they fell in love on the set of, and Angelina also directed and wrote the film.

However she is quick to point out that the story - about a couple whose marriage is on the brink of collapse - is not based on their own relationship.

'I'm counting on the audience to know that if it was close to us at all, we could never make this film,' Angelina explained. 'It's because we're actually very, very stable and these aren't our issues.'

A new trailer for the 1970s set drama was released on Friday, but doesn't give too much away.

With no dialogue, the clip still shows plenty of tense moments between the volatile characters, with Roland (Brad) getting aggressive and Vanessa (Angelina) popping pills.

By The Sea will be released in the US on November 13 and the UK on December 11. 